[Music]
welcome to democracy now
democracynow.org the quarantine report
I'm Amy Goodman president Donald Trump
Thursday allowed federal guidelines on
social distancing aimed at slowing the
spread of coronavirus to expire as at
least 31 states are set to reopen at
least some non-essential businesses over
the next few days this comes as the
worldwide death toll from the corona
virus pandemic has topped 233,000 the
official US death toll has passed 63,000
though that figure does not include most
people who died of kovat 19 outside of
hospitals or who died of the disease but
were not tested scientists say data on
excess deaths in the United States over
the past several weeks suggest tens of
thousands more have died than the
official tally at the White House
Thursday President Trump sought to
downplay the u.s. toll which is the
highest in the world
death totals there are numbers per
million people are really very very
strong we're very proud of the job we've
done Trump contradicted his
administration's top intelligence
officials saying he's seen strong
evidence that the novel coronavirus
emerged from a laboratory in Wuhan China
Trump presented no evidence and what
gives you a high degree of confidence
that this originated from the
instituted morality I can't tell you
that I'm not allowed to tell you that
New York Times reported top
administration officials have pushed
intelligence agencies to link the novel
coronavirus to Chinese labs the office
of Director of National Intelligence
issued a rare public statement Thursday
at red the intelligence community also
concurs with the wide scientific
consensus that the Kovach 19 virus was
not man-made or genetically modified
unquote on Thursday Trump also accused
China of backing Joe Biden in November's
election and threatened to impose new
tariffs on Chinese goods The Washington
Post reports some administration
officials have discussed canceling some
of the massive US debt held by China
meanwhile President Trump once again
blamed the Obama administration for a
slow rollout of coronavirus tests even
though the virus only emerged late last
year
Trump was questioned by CNN's Jim Acosta
broken tests we had tested where
absolutely we had tested didn't take
care of people in Indiana vice president
Mike Pence wore a face mask Thursday as
he toured a General Motors plant that's
now making ventilators Pence's
about-face came two days after he
violated hospital policy by refusing to
wear a facial covering while meeting
with doctors and Kovac 19 patients
during a tour of the Mayo Clinic in
Maryland Republican governor Larry Hogan
said Thursday the National Guard's
protecting half-a-million coronavirus
tests imported from South Korea at an
undisclosed location to prevent the
federal government from seizing them
governor Hogan told The Washington Post
he diverted a Korean Air passenger jet
to Baltimore Washington International
Airport to evade the scrutiny of the
federal government there with a large
contingent of Maryland National Guard
and Maryland State Police because this
was an enormous ly valuable payload it
was like it was like Fort Knox to us
because it's gonna save the lives of
thousands of our citizens at least six
states report the Federal Emergency
Management Agency FEMA has intercept
orders for needed medical supplies in
Texas ProPublica reports state officials
are refusing to reveal which nursing
homes and long-term care facilities have
kovat 19 cases citing a state medical
privacy law at least 300 people have
died in such facilities and family
members report they're unable to make
informed decisions about how to best
care for vulnerable loved ones in
California Governor Gavin Newsom has
ordered beaches in Orange County closed
after crowds defied social distancing
rules California reported 95 more
coronavirus deaths over the most recent
24 hour period here in New York Governor
Andrew Cuomo Thursday announced plans to
deploy thousands of workers to trace the
context of everyone who's tested
positive for the corona virus Cuomo said
he hopes to assign 30 contact tracers
for every hundred thousand New Yorkers
billionaire former presidential
candidate Michael Bloomberg will oversee
the program
Governor Cuomo also announced that
beginning May 6 the New York City subway
system will be shut down between 1:00
and 5:00 a.m. each day to clean and
disinfect subway cars and stations it's
the first time in over a century of New
York subway history that transit
officials have canceled 24-hour service
across all subway lines the shutdown
will exacerbate a crisis for thousands
of unhoused residents of New York City
who've used subway cars as shelters of
last resort in California medical
students and doctors with the UC San
Francisco do not harm coalition staged a
die-in outside the home of San Francisco
mayor London breed Wednesday to protest
her refusal to swiftly move unhoused
people into hotel rooms the Dyan lasted
30 minutes to symbolize 30,000 vacant
hotel rooms in the city that could be
used to house the homeless during the
pandemic the protesters also hold a
moment of silence for three unhoused
people in San Francisco who've died of
kovat 19 in Michigan Democratic governor
Gretchen Whitmer has extended a state of
emergency declaration until May 28th
over the objections of Republican state
lawmakers on Thursday hundreds of
protesters defying social distancing
rule
many of them armed with assault rifles
and wearing tactical gear descended on
Michigan's State Capitol in Lansing
demanding a lifting of remain at home
orders the crowd packed into the Capitol
Rotunda tried to storm onto the floor of
the legislative chamber lawmaker Dana
paw Hankey tweeted a photo of armed men
looking down from the gallery she wrote
directly above me men with rifles
yelling at us some of my colleagues who
own bulletproof vests are wearing them
I have never appreciated our sergeant's
at arm's more than today she said the
protest came a day after Michigan State
Senator Sylvia Santana introduced a bill
to ban the Confederate battle flag from
display on the Capitol grounds
last Friday Republican lawmaker Dale
Zorn were a facemask resembling a
confederate flag to the floor of the
Michigan Senate on Wednesday state
senator Erika guys called for Zorn to be
formally censured we cannot make
progress or change by ignoring issues of
race or by tolerating examples of hatred
whether overt covert by microaggression
or by accident in Puerto Rico activists
and dozens of cars held a caravan for
life through San Juan to demand the
government provide more kovat 19 tests
and sufficient resources for people to
stay at home during the pandemic police
stopped the caravan and said their sound
trucks were illegal when organizer
Giovanni Roberto demanded police
described the laws they were breaking
they arrested him he was released later
in the night his charges of obstruction
of justice were dropped we'll have more
on the corona virus crisis in Puerto
Rico later in the broadcast the Economic
Policy Institute reports a staggering 12
point 7 million US workers have lost
their employer-based health insurance
since the start of the pandemic the
finding came as the for-profit health
care firm Cigna reported better than
anticipated profits during the first
quarter and said it's expecting to meet
its profit estimates for 2020 today as
rent comes due and tens of millions of
US workers have been left unemployed by
the pandemic people across the United
States are joining a general strike on
May
the same day President Donald Trump says
much of the country will reopen for
business
among those walking off the job are
calling in sick to demand workplace
protections our employees of Amazon and
that subsidiary Whole Foods in
Washington DC protestors painted a mural
Wednesday with the words protect Amazon
workers on the street outside a mansion
owned by Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos the
world's richest person Amazon reports
revenues surged 26 percent in the first
three months of the year to more than 75
billion dollars as millions of homebound
Americans under quarantine placed orders
online with retail stores closed today
Amazon's ending unlimited unpaid time
off for its workers who will have to
choose between returning to the job or
getting fired and possibly becoming
ineligible for unemployment benefits on
Thursday Amazon set a worker at a
massive fulfillment center in Tracy
California died of kovat 19 and others
have tested positive for the disease at
the warehouse a federal appeals court
Thursday ruled the Trump administration
cannot withhold millions of dollars in
funding from so-called sanctuary cities
that refused to cooperate with federal
immigration enforcement the ruling stems
from a 2017 lawsuit filed by the city of
Chicago against the Trump administration
on Wednesday President Trump said he
might withhold coronavirus aid from
sanctuary states and cities unless they
comply with federal immigration policies
in Southern California immigrants jailed
at the for-profit Adelanto ice
processing Center are continuing a
hunger strike to demand their release
during the pandemic nationwide nearly
500 people have tested positive for the
virus and ice' immigration jails this is
Freddy one of the hunger strikers I am a
diabetic
what type of pressure we're on strike
because we are afraid of getting
infected with corona virus the sensor
does not take adequate measures so that
we can avoid getting infected there was
no social distancing since we all line
up at the dining room and they don't
give us hand sanitizer they don't give
us masks for us to protect ourselves in
Vietnam public health officials say
they've succeeded in containing the
corona virus outbreak after responding
quickly and aggressively to test large
numbers of people and isolate those
infected with a
according to Reuters Vietnam now has the
highest ratio of kovat 19 tests to
confirm cases in the world
Vietnam is officially reporting 270
cases and no deaths the former National
Police Chief of Honduras has been
charged in a federal court in New York
of trafficking tons of cocaine into the
United States on behalf of Honduran
President Juan Orlando Hernandez and the
president's already convicted brother
the official Juan Carlos Bonilla is
accused of participating in quote
extreme violence including the murder of
a rival trafficker to further the
conspiracy unquote Bonilla once worked
closely with the DEA the US Drug
Enforcement Administration Democratic
presidential candidate Joe Biden has
responded to sexual assault allegations
against him for the first time breaking
his silence after weeks of mounting
pressure it's the first time the
Democratic presidential nominee has
spoken publicly about Tara Reid a former
staffer of Joe Biden who says he
sexually assaulted her in 1993 in a
statement Friday morning Biden said
quote I want to address allegations by a
former staffer that I engaged in
misconduct 27 years ago they aren't true
this never happened he said as we go to
air a Biden as being interviewed on
MSNBC whereas he's expected to directly
address the allegations Tara Reid first
came forward with her allegations in
March saying Biden pushed her up against
a wall and digitally penetrated her
later in the broadcast will speak with
reporter rich McHugh whose new
investigation was the first to confirm
Tara Reid's accounts that two people who
knew her in the 90s and in a Democracy
Now TV radio broadcast exclusive will
speak to one of those women Lynda
Lacasse reads former neighbor the
International Energy Agency is
predicting global greenhouse gas
emissions will drop a record eight
percent this year as air travel
vehicular traffic and oil use has
plummeted across much of the globe due
to the corona virus pandemic but the IEA
warns emissions may soar again unless
governments invest now in clean energy
this comes as a new study by NASA finds
that 5,000 Giga tons of ice have melted
in Greenland and Antarctica over the
last 60
years producing enough water to fill
Lake Michigan the famous Mexican protest
singer Oscar Chavez has died at the age
of 85 after being hospitalized with
coronavirus symptoms and the pioneering
nigerian drummer Tony Allen has died at
the age of 79 he helped invent the music
genre of Afrobeat while working with
Fela Kuti x'b and Afrika 70 Brian Eno
once said Allen was quote perhaps the
greatest drummer who ever lived
and those are some of the headlines this
is democracy now democracynow.org the
quarantine report when we return from
break we'll talk about Mayday and the
number of people who are protesting all
over the United States and then we'll go
to our broadcast television radio
exclusive an interview with the accuser
of Joe Biden's neighbor whom she said
Tara Reid told what happened in the
mid-1990s this is democracy now stay
with us